README // Add formatting policy. (#3680)
rust-windowing/winit: CONTRIBUTING.md

_Desired behaviour:_ Write a message saying roughly the following "The CI
failure is unrelated", so that the maintainers will fix it for you.

_Event:_ The CI fails to build due to a formatting issue, but you can't do this
on your computer.\
_Desired behavior_: Please make sure you have read the following "Formatting"
section so you can even handle this prior to commit your changes. This can be a
special case since veterans will think it is your fault. However, you can always ask
them for help. It's not a guilt asking for any technical help in conforming this policy.

> Just ask.

Reviewer: This is technically not a _handling review_, because the formatter will start to fail before you even send something, since it'll warn that it doesn't understand the options, because they are from nightly, so I'd probably just add a note after `Then to format` with the wording I posted on other comment (simply because it's _way shorter_)

Author: Got it. I just noticed this due to network latency. Give me a minute to think of it.

[issues]: https://github.com/rust-windowing/winit/issues
[matrix]: https://matrix.to/#/#rust-windowing:matrix.org

### Formatting

Winit strictly relies on nightly `rustfmt`. A PR will not even get reviewed if
nightly `cargo-fmt` check is not passed. If you have `rustup` installed you
can install nightly toolchain using the following command `rustup toolchain install nightly`.

Then to format the code you can run `cargo +nightly fmt`.

> However, if you feel uncomfortable using nightly toolchain, ensure that CI passes with the exception of formatting and explicitly indicate that your code should be formatted before merge.

Reviewer: Wrap it at `80` chars.

Though, we should  add after rust formatting stuff in the same section, after `For more`:

When editing markdown files(.md), they must be wrapped at **80** chars.

Author: > When editing markdown files(.md), they must be wrapped at 80 chars.

Is this a convention for all repos or just this `winit`?

Reviewer: it's just winit, but there's no convention how to wrap them anyway.

In general, you should just look around and follow what existing style is, in this case if you look into this file, you could notice that your line is way longer than everything else in this file...

Author: @kchibisov It might be limited to my knowledge.

CJK Markdowns never wrap when a string is supposed to be rendered into one line. Otherwise, unwanted spaces will be generated by the markdown parser.

Reviewer: But we use `English`, which has spaces...

Generally whether you wrap something or not is up to you and project you use. If you don't wrap then you don't wrap, but we wrap. Also, if particular markdown file doesn't really handle it, then it seems like markdown parser issue and you can `\` iirc.

[issues]: https://github.com/rust-windowing/winit/issues
[matrix]: https://matrix.to/#/#rust-windowing:matrix.org

### Formatting

> Winit relies on nightly `rustfmt`. A PR will usually not get reviewed if the
> nightly `cargo-fmt` check did not pass. If you have `rustup` installed you can
> install the nightly toolchain using `rustup toolchain install nightly`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Winit relies on nightly `rustfmt`. If you have `rustup` installed you can
install the nightly toolchain using `rustup toolchain install nightly`.
```

I don't believe this is necessary.

Then to format the code you can run `cargo +nightly fmt`.

For more on how to manage toolchains, see [the documentation](https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/concepts/toolchains.html).

If you feel uncomfortable using a `nightly` toolchain, ensure that CI passes
with the exception of formatting, and ask the maintainers on your PR to format

> the code before merge.

Reviewer 2: I don't want to encode this into a kind of rule, I think we are capable enough to make judgements like this individually.

I'm also not sure why anybody would be "uncomfortable" using a nightly toolchain, considering its just for formatting. Installing the nightly toolchain does not force you to use or ship compiled binaries with nightly.

Author: I'm afraid that survivalship bias does not always work, sir.

> When editing markdown files(.md) they must be wrapped at **80** characters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When editing markdown files (`.md`) they must be wrapped at **80** characters.
```

[issues]: https://github.com/rust-windowing/winit/issues
[matrix]: https://matrix.to/#/#rust-windowing:matrix.org

### Formatting

> Winit strictly relies on nightly `rustfmt`. A PR will not even get reviewed if
> nightly `cargo-fmt` check is not passed. If you have `rustup` installed you can
> install nightly toolchain using the following command `rustup toolchain install
> nightly`.

Reviewer 3: Nit: Less strong language.

```suggestion
Winit relies on nightly `rustfmt`. A PR will usually not get reviewed if the
nightly `cargo-fmt` check did not pass. If you have `rustup` installed you can
install the nightly toolchain using `rustup toolchain install nightly`.
```

Then to format the code you can run `cargo +nightly fmt`.

> For more on how to manage toolchains, see [the textbook](https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/concepts/toolchains.html).

Reviewer 3: Nit: It's not a physical textbook.

```suggestion
For more on how to manage toolchains, see [the documentation](https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/concepts/toolchains.html).
```

> However, if you feel uncomfortable using `nightly` toolchain, ensure that CI
> passes with the exception of formatting and explicitly indicate that your 
> code should be formatted before merge.

Reviewer 3: Nit:
- "However" sounds weird in this context
- "explicitly indicate" may be confusing (where do I explicitly indicate such a thing?), tell people to just ask on the PR

```suggestion
If you feel uncomfortable using a `nightly` toolchain, ensure that CI passes
with the exception of formatting, and ask the maintainers on your PR to format
the code before merge.
```
